README.md, before:

# Order Service Demo

This project is a demonstration of an order management service, built with Java and Spring Boot, applying advanced software architecture concepts such as Clean Architecture, Domain-Driven Design (DDD), and distributed systems patterns.

## Project Objective

The main objective of this service, as per the original specification, is to act as a central orchestrator in the order lifecycle:
1.  **Receive** orders from an external system (Product A).
2.  **Manage** the order's lifecycle, calculate its total value, and apply business rules.
3.  **Provide** the processed orders to a second external system (Product B).

The system was designed to handle a high volume of orders (150-200k per day), ensuring performance, resilience, and data consistency.

## Architecture & Concepts

The solution is built upon the principles of **Clean Architecture**, ensuring a clear separation of concerns, low coupling, and high testability.

* **`domain`**: The innermost, purest layer of the project. It contains the entities, aggregates (like `Order`), and core business logic, with no framework dependencies.
* **`application`**: Orchestrates the business workflows through `UseCases` (e.g., `CreateOrderUseCase`) and defines the contracts (`Gateway` interfaces) for external dependencies.
* **`infrastructure`**: The outermost layer, where technology details reside. It contains the implementations of the gateways (MongoDB, RabbitMQ), Spring configuration, API controllers, and testing infrastructure.

Other key patterns and concepts used:
* **Domain-Driven Design (DDD):** To model a rich domain and ensure the consistency of business rules.
* **API-First:** The API contract is defined in an `openapi.yaml` file, and the API code is generated from it.
* **Asynchronous Processing:** RabbitMQ is used to decouple order reception from processing, ensuring the API responds quickly and the system is resilient to failures.
* **Distributed Caching:** Redis is used to optimize read operations, improving performance.
* **Unit and Integration Testing:** The project includes a solid foundation of unit and integration tests to ensure code quality.

## Integration Flow

The service implements the full end-to-end flow, from receiving an order to making it available to external systems.

1.  **Product A (Input):** Simulated through calls to the REST API (`POST /orders`). The API validates the request, creates the `Order` domain object, and publishes an `order.created` event to RabbitMQ for asynchronous processing.

2.  **Order Service (Processing):**
    * An `OrderEventListener` consumes the message from the queue.
    * It delegates the work to a `ProcessOrderUseCase`, which orchestrates the order enrichment (calculating the total value, transitioning states from `RECEIVED` -> `PROCESSING` -> `COMPLETED`).
    * The order's state is persisted at each step in the MongoDB database.

3.  **Product B (Output):**
    * After the order is marked as `COMPLETED`, the `ProcessOrderUseCase` invokes the `NotificationGateway`.
    * The `WebhookNotificationGateway` implementation actively sends the complete, processed `Order` object via **HTTP POST** to an external endpoint.
    * For demonstration purposes, this endpoint is configured in the `application.properties` file to point to a **[Webhook.site](https://webhook.site/)** URL, allowing for real-time visualization of the sent data.

## Tech Stack

* **Language & Framework:** Java 21, Spring Boot 3
* **Database:** MongoDB
* **Messaging:** RabbitMQ
* **Cache:** Redis
* **API:** Spring Web, OpenAPI 3 (Swagger)
* **Build & Dependencies:** Maven
* **Testing:** JUnit 5, Mockito, Testcontainers, AssertJ
* **Other Libraries:** Lombok, MapStruct
* **Runtime Environment:** Docker & Docker Compose

## How to Run the Project

### Prerequisites
* Git
* Java (JDK) 21 or higher
* Apache Maven 3.9+
* Docker and Docker Compose

### Execution Steps

1.  **Clone the Repository:**
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/frekele/order-service-demo.git
    cd order-service-demo
    ```

2.  **Start the Infrastructure with Docker:**
    This command will start the MongoDB, RabbitMQ, and Redis containers in the background.
    ```sh
    docker compose up -d
    ```
    You can check if the services are running with `docker compose ps`.

3.  **Build and Install Dependencies:**
    This command compiles the project, generates the API code from the `openapi.yaml` file, and runs the tests.
    ```sh
    mvn clean install
    ```

4.  **Run the Application:**
    Navigate to the infrastructure module and use the Spring Boot plugin to start the service.
    ```sh
    cd infrastructure/
    mvn spring-boot:run
    ```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:8080`.

## Exploring the API

After starting the application, you can access the interactive API documentation (Swagger UI) in your browser:

* **Swagger UI:** [http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html)

From this interface, you can explore all endpoints and execute test requests directly.

## Running the Tests

The project contains a suite of unit and integration tests. To run all tests, use the following Maven command from the project root:

```sh
mvn clean verify
```
* **Coverage Report:** After the run, a code coverage report generated by JaCoCo will be available at `infrastructure/target/site/jacoco/index.html`.

Commit message:

docs: added information into README.md and how-to-call-api.md

README.md, after:

# Order Service Demo

This project is a demonstration of an order management service, built with Java and Spring Boot, applying advanced software architecture concepts such as Clean Architecture, Domain-Driven Design (DDD), and distributed systems patterns.

## Project Objective

The main objective of this service, as per the original specification, is to act as a central orchestrator in the order lifecycle:
1.  **Receive** orders from an external system (Product A).
2.  **Manage** the order's lifecycle, calculate its total value, and apply business rules.
3.  **Provide** the processed orders to a second external system (Product B).

The system was designed to handle a high volume of orders (150-200k per day), ensuring performance, resilience, and data consistency.

## Architecture & Concepts

The solution is built upon the principles of **Clean Architecture**, ensuring a clear separation of concerns, low coupling, and high testability.

* **`domain`**: The innermost, purest layer of the project. It contains the entities, aggregates (like `Order`), and core business logic, with no framework dependencies.
* **`application`**: Orchestrates the business workflows through `UseCases` (e.g., `CreateOrderUseCase`) and defines the contracts (`Gateway` interfaces) for external dependencies.
* **`infrastructure`**: The outermost layer, where technology details reside. It contains the implementations of the gateways (MongoDB, RabbitMQ), Spring configuration, API controllers, and testing infrastructure.

Other key patterns and concepts used:
* **Domain-Driven Design (DDD):** To model a rich domain and ensure the consistency of business rules.
* **API-First:** The API contract is defined in an `openapi.yaml` file, and the API code is generated from it.
* **Asynchronous Processing:** RabbitMQ is used to decouple order reception from processing, ensuring the API responds quickly and the system is resilient to failures.
* **Distributed Caching:** Redis is used to optimize read operations, improving performance.
* **Unit and Integration Testing:** The project includes a solid foundation of unit and integration tests to ensure code quality.

## Integration Flow

The service implements the full end-to-end flow, from receiving an order to making it available to external systems.

1.  **Product A (Input):** Simulated through calls to the REST API (`POST /orders`). The API validates the request, creates the `Order` domain object, and publishes an `order.created` event to RabbitMQ for asynchronous processing.

2.  **Order Service (Processing):**
    * An `OrderEventListener` consumes the message from the queue.
    * It delegates the work to a `ProcessOrderUseCase`, which orchestrates the order enrichment (calculating the total value, transitioning states from `RECEIVED` -> `PROCESSING` -> `COMPLETED`).
    * The order's state is persisted at each step in the MongoDB database.

3.  **Product B (Output):**
    * After the order is marked as `COMPLETED`, the `ProcessOrderUseCase` invokes the `NotificationGateway`.
    * The `WebhookNotificationGateway` implementation actively sends the complete, processed `Order` object via **HTTP POST** to an external endpoint.
    * For demonstration purposes, this endpoint is configured in the `application.properties` file to point to a **[Webhook.site](https://webhook.site/)** URL, allowing for real-time visualization of the sent data.

## Tech Stack

* **Language & Framework:** Java 21, Spring Boot 3
* **Database:** MongoDB
* **Messaging:** RabbitMQ
* **Cache:** Redis
* **API:** Spring Web, OpenAPI 3 (Swagger)
* **Build & Dependencies:** Maven
* **Testing:** JUnit 5, Mockito, Testcontainers, AssertJ
* **Other Libraries:** Lombok, MapStruct
* **Runtime Environment:** Docker & Docker Compose

## How to Run the Project

### Prerequisites
* Git
* Java (JDK) 21 or higher
* Apache Maven 3.9+
* Docker and Docker Compose

### Execution Steps

1.  **Clone the Repository:**
    ```sh
    git clone [https://github.com/frekele/order-service-demo.git](https://github.com/frekele/order-service-demo.git)
    cd order-service-demo
    ```

2.  **Start the Infrastructure with Docker:**
    This command will start the MongoDB, RabbitMQ, and Redis containers in the background.
    ```sh
    docker compose up -d
    ```
    You can check if the services are running with `docker compose ps`.

3.  **Build and Install Dependencies:**
    This command compiles the project, generates the API code from the `openapi.yaml` file, and runs the tests.
    ```sh
    mvn clean install
    ```

4.  **Run the Application:**
    Navigate to the infrastructure module and use the Spring Boot plugin to start the service.
    ```sh
    cd infrastructure/
    mvn spring-boot:run
    ```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:8080`.

## Exploring the API

After starting the application, you can access the interactive API documentation (Swagger UI) in your browser:

* **Swagger UI:** [http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html)

From this interface, you can explore all endpoints and execute test requests directly.

* **Postman Guide:** For detailed examples on how to call each endpoint with Postman, including success and error scenarios, see our guide: **[How to Call the API](how-to-call-api.md)**

## Running the Tests

The project contains a suite of unit and integration tests. To run all tests, use the following Maven command from the project root:

```sh
mvn clean verify
```
* **Coverage Report:** After the run, a code coverage report generated by JaCoCo will be available at `infrastructure/target/site/jacoco/index.html`.
